So now that you're familiar with applying stylings to classes and ideas we're going to apply those styles
to a group of HCM elements and the usual way to do that is to split them up inside divs.
So a div is just short for division and let's say for some reason I wanted to
take those first two paragraph tags and split them into a separate div to the rest and get my indenting
nice.
There we go.
For now I'm going to take away my classes
for those as well.
So you can see in itself the div doesn't do anything.
It doesn't apply any classes or make it look any different but if I apply I class to that div I might
want to give it a class of first section and then I've used a dash there not a space should never use
spaces in your class or id names.
And in fact I think I'll make that an ID because there's only going to be one first section that makes
more sense to give it an id rather than a class.
So then I might want all the text in that first section to be blue.
So can you apply that for me make all the text in the first section div blue with just a single CSSA
command.
Go for it.
All right I hope you manage that.
It's an idea.
So we're going to use hash and then first section and we add in our Kelli brackets and then if we want
everything to be blue we just use color code on really we get and then will style everything inside
the first section div as Billy.
So that's one way of using divs to style the contents but we can also buy the style to the div itself.
So let's say we wanted a pink background for some reason in this first section then we could set the
background color to Big
every day and then you can see now we've got a really separate section to the rest of the page and you
can also then see the limits of what the day is.
So the Dave is that box because all the way across the page and contains those two paragraphs we might
want to also change the width of this div.
So rather than go all the way across the page we might want to go halfway across the page and we do
that just using width and 50 percent that would take it half way across the page.
There we go.
We could also set the width to a certain number of pixels.
So if we made it a hundred pixels for example X then that would mean that the text would start to go
onto multiple lines and that's more or less all there is to it.
We can use divs to apply styles to the contents of the div but also to the div itself like the background
color.
So a very quick challenge for you Can you put a div around the SEC.
The third paragraph tag and the H-1 and then give them both a yellow background.
Go for it.
All right.
That way.
Well should've just been something like div and then you could have done it with a class or an ID.
I'm going to give it that ID of a second section that seems to make sense.
And then I'll close my div after the H one and I hope you did your indenting all nicely.
And that's all we need in terms of h t m l.
So I apply that to apply the background.
We just use the hash.
And then second section to select that div and then we want a background color
of yellow.
There we go.
So we're still a fairly long way from beautiful Web sites but we're coming on quickly in our ability
to ply a range of styles to different objects in groups and with classes and ideas.
So this is all making sense so far.
We're now going to look at specific stylings how you achieve certain effects and we're going to start
next video looking in more detail at color.